Contains General Both phone call and in person Interview

* Technical phone 
    Let's think you're working on the one function to test. For example,
    it is payment system, however, one of the payment function like PayPal 
    is not working. I mean, Paypal is down. How do you test in this situation? 


    What is mock testing? 


    What is the responsive website?


    How do you get data using the Cucumber? 

        Scenario outline, 

    How do you do API testing? 

    Tell me about yourself? 

    What is POM? 

    How do you get test Data?

* Phone Interview
    1. Tell me about yourself?

    2. Whats your roles?

    3. Did you create your framework? 

    3.1. Do you do back-end testing? 

    4. How do you prepare test data? (Data virtualization, Delphix)

    5. Tell me about your regression suite? How big is it? 

    6. Are you using Selenium Grid? 

    7. How do you initialize Selenium WebDriver? 

    8. What kind of Browser do you use? 
    9. What kind of Locators do you know in Selenium?
    10. How do you handle the dropdown list? 
    11. How do you handle the popups in Selenium? 
    12. Are you familiar with SQL queries?
    13. Tell me about API testing?
    14. How do you do API testing? 
    15. You have many endpoints and you need to test them. What do you do? (steps)
    16. Do you familiar with Swagger? 
    17. There were questions about SOAP UI as well. (They are using it)

* Phone Interview
    Tell me about your self?

    What do you mean by Cross functional?

    How do you use back end testing?


    What is Rest-Assured?

    Are you familiar with Collections?

    What is Map?

    What is back end testing?

    What is Big O Notation?

    Write an Xpath that would find third row of the second table?

    Programming challenge :

    Write a method which takes in a space-separated string of integers, 

    and prints out the number of occurrences of each integer. 
        input: "1 5 9 2 1 5 8 1"
        Output: "1(3) 2(1) 5(2) 8(1) 9(1)"
    write a method which prints out the numbers from 1 to 30. For 
    numbers which are a multiple of 3, print “BLA” instead of the number. 
    For numbers which are a multiple of 5, print “BLABLA” instead of the number. 
    For numbers which are a multiple of 3 and 5, print “CyberTek” instead of the 
    number. 

* Face to face
    1)Tell me about your background?
    2)Cucumber?
    3)What does it mean DataTable inside you feature files?
    4)Scenario vs Scenario Outline
    5)Map and Map.Entry?
    6)Selenium?
    7)Synchronization (Implicit/Explicit/Fluent Wait)
    8)Different btw Fluent and Explicit?
    9)How to connect to Database?
    10)Abstract vs Interface? (Where you used in your project)

    There is some question (once I remember I will post it)

* face to face
    1.Tell me about yourself ?

    2.Tell me about your project ?

    3.Agile environments?

    4. How you do your back end testing ?

    5.What is overriding ? 

    6. HashMap?  HashSet ?what is the difference with hashMap and hasTable ? 

    7. The different between final and finally ?

    8. The spring is ending but you find a bug ,  what you going to do ? you will close the bug or continue on next spring ?

    9. Sometimes the developer is not agree with you , how you handle this kind of situation ?

    10.The requirement said the password should be 4 digit ,but when you put your first name it is passing  (my name is longer then 4 digit ) is that a bug ? 

    11.  The spring is ending , but you find a bug , and the developer said it is not on the requirement . what should you do ? 

    12. Do you have any experience with SAS. 

    13. mathematic skill? (just a conversation , he said the project will deal with  huge numbers , how is you mathematic?)

    14. why you looking for the job ?

    15. When is your project end ? how soon you can start ? 

    during the interview I asked some question :

    1. how about your team ?

    2.can you tell me about your project ? 

* technical interview skype
    1.	Write a SQL query to find how many records are there in Town table where 
    “TOWN_NAME” has “ell” in them?
            - select count(*) 
            from town 
            where town_name like '%ell%'; 

    2.	Write a SQL query to find how many occurrences of each “COUNTRY_CODE” are 
    there in the Town table?
            - select country_code,count(*)
            from town 
            Group by country_code;

    3.	Write a SQL query to find the “TOWN_NAME” where there are non-alphanumeric 
    characters?
            select(*)
            from town
            where town_name not like '%[^a-zA-Z0-9]%';

    4.	Write a SQL query to select the first 5 records from Town table?
            select * 
            from town
            where rownum <= 5;

* selfJoin interview ( )
        1.
        select emp.employee_id, emp.first_name, man.first_name, man.last_name
        from employees emp join employees man
        on emp.manager_id = man.employee_id;

* difference between Intersect and Minus
        - INTERSECT: displays common data en both queries
        - MINUS: returns records from first query that is not present in second query.

 * JOIN VS UNION interview question
        - joins are used to display query from multiple tables
        - Union is used to query data from multiple queries. 

* Display 5th row from table ( CORE RELATED SUB QUERY)

        - we need to use correlated subquery
        - inner query will get columns along with rownumber and outer query will look
        for specific row number
        
        example: 
        - select *
        from (select employee_id,first_name, rownum as rn from employees)
        where rn = 5;


1. How many years of automation experience do you have?

2. Tell me about the current project you're working on and your role in it?

3. Tell me about your framework

4. How many test cases are in your framework?

5. Let's imagine, you need to add one more test case to your smoke test bc of the added 
functionality, how do you make sure it runs in Jenkins?

6. Who configures your Jenkins?
   - Dev ops team set up jenkins, We get reports on email. 

7. Let's imagine, you're working with the browser and a pop-up  comes up, how do you handle it?
   - switchtoAlert 

8. Do yo work with locators?

9. Tell me the difference between By.linkText and By.partialLinkText?

10. What browsers do you automate on?

11. What is the extra step you need to take to configure Internet Explorer for automation? 
    - (He gave me answer: you need to enable capabilities)

12. What libraries do you use for your excel files? Do you work with PDF files as well?

13. How do you automate your database?

14. SQL question: You have a table with "Employee ID", "Employee Name", "Total Salary". 
    How do you choose just the employee with the highest salary?

15. Do you use aggregate functions?

16. We have tables and we have Views, do you work with Views?


17. difference  between implict wait and explicit wait.
    implicit wait: we have hooks class we have before and after comes from cucumber 
                    before method we have implict wait which declares 

    Explicit: for specific web element 

18: can you handle Error ?
        
19: sauce labs? 

20: how do you handle last minute project. if you developer deploys his code at the last minute and you
dont have time to test what do you do?

21: how do you link test case to user story in jira?


1. Tell me about your manual and automation background?
2. Describe the manual Testing Lifecycle?
3. What is Java class, variable, method, Object, method overloading?
4. What does Page Object Model mean?
5. What is REST API and how do you test it?
6. How do you test your DataBase and define that it passes or fails?
7. What TestNG and Cucumber annotations do you know?
8. How do you do your reports?

Tell me about yourself?
How would you rate yourself in java on a scale of 10?
Write me a method which can identify a given number is even or odd
identify(5) -> print "Odd"

identify(6) -> print "Even" 

--> What about your approach using Scanner class? Tell me about Scanner

  4. Write a method that returns string version of int

convert(4321) -> print "four thousand three hundred and twenty one"

How do you run TestNG.xml from command line?
Can you tell me about TestNG listeners and how do you implement it?
What type of locators do you use in selenium?
How do you handle multiple windows in selenium?
What’s the alternative of sendKeys() method?
How do you automate images, have you used any other tools to test images?
Tell me about a problem you faced with selenium and how did you solve it?
Tell me about some of the exceptions you worked with in selenium?
I put a water bottle in the refrigerator, and the water is not getting cold, what’s your approach to troubleshoot? (He wanted to hear 7 different approaches)
How good are you with SQL?
What’s the difference between Join and Union?


1. Tell us about yourself and your framework/current project.

2. When the time is tight, would you just write an okayish code or do you always take extra time to review the code you wrote and polish it to make it better?

3. Difference between final and finally?

4. how do you use overloading in your project?

5. How do you migrate 18 million rows of data from one place to another?

6. What is the difference between functional tester and manual tester? (I guess the product owner thought they were different titles as I was mentioning either one time to time)

7. If there's an argument between you and the developer regarding a bug, who has the final say? (I said PO)

8. How do you resolve conflict between coworkers?

9. How do you handle stress?

10. The sprint is ending very soon and you have to do release, but you found a minor issue, what would you do? (I said talk to the team or PO) And they said: But the product owner wants you to just close it, it's too late, we have to do the release.. (I said then it's up to whatever the PO says)

11. Tell us about a time where you took leadership role and led a group to do something at your work.

12. You have 2 user stories with same/high priority, how would you make sure to finish both of them in a timely manner?

13. How do you convince your team about a new tool/idea that you want to bring in to the team that everyone is against?

14. Have you done demo?

15. Do you only do testing or do you help with developers and/or BA with their job?

16. In your current project, do you believe everything can be automated? (I said no, that's why we have manual tester)

17. Explain to us what is the definition of done?

18. How good is your math skills? 

19. How many environments do you have?

20. When you are done with a certain task, do you review it others or just submit it? (correct answer is review it with whole team)




1. Write a method that check if a string is build out of the same letters as another string
same("abc","cab"); -> true 
same("abc","abb"); -> false

2. Write a method that will remove all dupplicates from string 
removeDup("abcc"); -> "abc"

3. Write a method that will count number of each char in a String
countChar("abbc"); -> {a=1, b=2, c=1}

4. Write a method that will print only unique letters of given string
printUnique("aabbc") -> "c"
printUnique("aabc") -> "bc"

5. Write a method which prints out the numbers from 1 to 30 
but for numbers which are a multiple of 3, print "FIN" instead of the number 
and for numbers which are a multiple of 5, print "RA" instead of the number
for numbers which are a multiple of both 3 and 5, print "FINRA" instead of the number.

6. Method that prints numbers in fibonacci sequence in java. In fibonacci series, 
next number is the sum of previous two numbers for example 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55 etc.
The first two numbers of fibonacci series are 0 and 1. Method will accepts one int as arg.
fibonacci(5); -> 0, 1, 1, 2, 3 
fibonacci(8); -> 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13,

7. Write me a method which can identifies given number is even or odd
identify(5) -> print "Odd"
identify(6) -> print "Even"

8. Write a method that returns string version of int
convert(4321) -> print "four thousand three hundred and twenty one"

9. Write a program to print all permutations of a given string. This one is crazy 
permutation("ABC") -> "ABC ACB BAC BCA CBA CAB"

10. Write a method to print a diamond of astercics
diamond(); - >   *
                        ***
                       *****
                        ***
                          *
11. Write a method that returns max value out of array of integers, and than Srtings.
int[] arr = {2,3,4};
max(arr) -> 4

12. You have a sentence in a String : ''Mom and dad in a racecar '' --> find and return the biggest palindrome

and then write all possible ways how to test the function that i just did.



1. Tell me about yourself? 

2. Whats your project? 

3. In the future do you willing to be a developer? 

3. What do you not like in automation? (I said SQL. He said. OK.. Lets start with SQL..)

4. There are two tables they supposed to have same data. How can you test it? 

5. There are two tables they supposed to have the same number of row. How can you test it? 

6. There is a table. It has a first name, last name, salary, depID. I want to know the average salary of each department 

7. What is JOINS in SQL?

8. Union, Union All 

9. What is 'final' in java? When do you use it?

10. OOP concepts in Java? 

11. Reverse String method 

12. How do you use Cucumber in your framework? 

13. Tell me about your framework? 

14. What is a flow of execution? 

15. Why do you follow a singleton pattern design?

16. CI and CD 

Then one interviewer started to explain what is it CD. almost 15 min

17. Do you like your job?

There were regular questions about selenium. It is it.

Then I asked about their team.

About my roles












